---
speaker: Agnieszka Hejna (University of Wrocław, Poland)
title: "Harmonic analysis and Hormander's multiplier theorem in the rational Dunkl setting"
date: 31 March, 2021
time: 4 pm
venue: Microsoft Teams (online)
series: "APRG Seminar"
website: http://math.iisc.ac.in/~aprg/index.php?id=seminar20-21
---

Dunkl theory is a generalization of Fourier analysis and special function theory related to
root systems and reflections groups. The Dunkl operators $T_{j}$, which were introduced by
C. F. Dunkl in 1989, are deformations of directional derivatives by difference operators
related to the reflection group. The goal of this talk will be to study harmonic analysis
in the rational Dunkl setting. The first part will be devoted to some of results obtained
in recent joint works with Jacek Dziubanski (2019, 2020).

-  improved estimates of the heat kernel $h_t(\mathbf{x},\mathbf{y})$ of the Dunkl heat
semigroup generated by Dunkl–Laplace operator $\Delta_k=\sum_{j=1}^{N}T_j^2$ expressed
in terms of analysis on the spaces of homogeneous type;

- theorem regarding the support of Dunkl translations $\tau_{\mathbf{x}}\phi$ of $L^2$
compactly supported function $\phi$ (not necessarily radial).

The results listed above turn out to be useful tools in studying harmonic analysis in
Dunkl setting. We will discuss this kind of applications in the second part of the talk.
We will focus on a version of the classical H\"ormander's multiplier theorem proved in joint
work with Dziubanski (2019). If time permits, we will discussed how our tools can be used to
for studying singular integrals of convolution type or Littlewood–Paley square functions
in the Dunkl setting.

