---
speaker: Papri Dey (University of Missouri, USA) 
title: "Colloquium: Hyperbolic Polynomials, Helton-Vinnikov curves, and Symmetroids"
date: 16 Nov, 2021
time: 5:30 pm
venue: Microsoft Teams (online)
website: 
---

In this talk, I shall give a panoramic view of my research work. I shall introduce
the notion of hyperbolic polynomials and discuss an algebraic method to test
hyperbolicity of a multivariate polynomial w.r.t. some fixed point via sum-of-squares
relaxation, proposed in my research work. An important class of hyperbolic polynomials
are definite determinantal polynomials. Helton--Vinnikov curves in the projective plane
are cut-out by hyperbolic polynomials in three variables. This leads to the computational
problem of explicitly producing a symmetric positive definite linear determinantal
representation for a given curve. I shall focus on two approaches to this problem proposed
in my research work: an algebraic approach via solving polynomial equations, and a
geometric-combinatorial approach via scalar product representations of the coefficients
and its connection with polytope membership problem. The algorithms to solve determinantal
representation problems are implemented in Macaulay2 as a software package
DeterminantalRepresentations.m2. Then I shall briefly address the methodologies to find the
degree and the defining equations of certain varieties which are obtained as the image of
some given varieties of $\mathbb{P}\_n$ under coordinate-wise power map, for example the
$4 \times 4$ orthostochastic variety. Finally, I shall demonstrate a connection of symmetroids
with the real degeneracy loci of matrices.
