---


code: MA 347B
title: "Hyperbolic Conservation Laws: Theory, Numerics, and Applications"
credits: "3:0"
books:
  - author: A. Bressan
    title: "Hyperbolic systems of conservation laws: the one-dimensional Cauchy problem"
    publ: Oxford Lecture Ser. Math. Appl., Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2000

  - author: E. Godlewski and P.-A. Raviart
    title: Hyperbolic systems of conservation laws [No. 3-4]
    publ: Ellipses, Paris, 1991

  - author: H. Holden and N. H. Risebro
    title: Front tracking for hyperbolic conservation laws
    publ: Springer, second ed., 2015

  - author: R. J. LeVeque
    title: Finite volume methods for hyperbolic problems
    publ: Cambridge Texts Appl. Math., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2002
prereq-courses: 
prereqs:
  - Topics from MA222 are desirable but not absolutely necessary. A brief review of the essential concepts from measure theory will be provided in Chapter 3.
ug-prereq-courses: 
---

This course illustrates the interplay between mathematical theory and numerical analysis leading to an understanding of some of the famous real-world problems modeled by hyperbolic conservation laws. Main topics include:

1. Linear Transport Equation: Method of characteristics; classical solutions; finite difference methods and their convergence analysis (Lax equivalence theorem).
2. Scalar Conservation Laws: Method of characteristics; weak solutions; Rankine-Hugoniot condition; Riemann problems; mathematical entropy; initial value problems (IVPs); initial boundary value problems (IBVPs); Kruzkov's uniqueness theorem for IVPs.
3. L¹ space and BV Compactness: Helly's Theorem.
4. Numerical Methods and Existence Results for IVPs:
   a. Front Tracking Method: BV bounds and convergence analysis.
   b. Finite Volume Method: Monotone schemes; BV bounds and convergence analysis (Lax-Wendroff theorem).
   c. Splitting Method: Source splitting; dimension splitting; BV bounds and convergence analysis.
5. Applications and Numerical Simulations: Traffic models (LWR models); two-phase flow in porous media (Buckley-Leverett model).
6. System of Conservation Laws: Hyperbolicity, weak and entropy solutions; Lax-Liu entropy condition; Riemann problems; uniqueness results (statements only)
7. Applications and Numerical Simulations: Dam-breaking problem (shallow water equations); chromatography equation; Euler equations.

**Note:** The course is primarily intended for third and fourth year B.Tech. Mathematics and Computing students, Integrated Ph.D. students in the Department of Mathematics, and BS Mathematics majors/minors. It may also serve as a foundational course on finite volume methods and hyperbolic conservation laws for M.Tech. and Ph.D. students interested in fluid dynamics. The course will be largely self-contained, with most of the required background covered or reviewed during the lectures.
