---
date: 2010-12-24
speaker: " Prof. Uriel Frisch Observatoire de la Cote d'Azur Nice, France"
title: " The tyger phenomenon for the Galerkin-truncated Burgers and Euler equations"
time: " lh 1, department of mathematics indian institute of science, bangalore" 
venue: "4:00"
---
It is shown that the solutions of inviscid hydrodynamical equations with
suppression of all spatial Fourier modes having wavenumbers in excess of a
threshold $\\kg$ exhibit unexpected features. The study is carried out for
both the one-dimensional Burgers equation and the two-dimensional
incompressible Euler equation. At large $\\kg$, for smooth initial
conditions, the first symptom of truncation, a localized short-wavelength
oscillation which we call a "tyger", is caused by a resonant interaction
between fluid particle motion and truncation waves generated by
small-scale features (shocks, layers with strong vorticity gradients,
etc). These tygers appear when complex-space singularities come within one
Galerkin wavelength
$\\lambdag = 2\\pi/\\kg$ from the real domain and typically arise far away
from preexisting small-scale structures at locations whose velocities
match that of such structures. Tygers are weak and strongly localized at
first - in the Burgers case at the time of appearance of the first shock
their amplitudes and widths are proportional to $\\kg ^{-2/3}$ and $\\kg
^{-1/3}$ respectively - but grow and eventually invade the whole flow.
They are thus the first manifestations of the thermalization predicted by
T.D. Lee in 1952.  The sudden dissipative anomaly-the presence of a finite
dissipation in the limit of vanishing viscosity after a finite time
$\\ts$-, which is well known for the Burgers equation and sometimes
conjectured for the 3D Euler equation, has as counterpart in the truncated
case the ability of tygers to store a finite amount of energy in the limit
$\\kg\\to\\infty$. This leads to Reynolds stresses acting on scales larger
than the Galerkin wavelength and thus prevents the flow from converging to
the inviscid-limit solution. There are indications that it may be possible
to purge the tygers and thereby to recover the correct inviscid-limit
behaviour.
