---
speaker: G. Krishna Teja (HRI, Prayagraj)
title: "Weak faces of highest weight modules and root systems"
date: 10 February, 2023
time: 3 pm
venue: LH-1, Mathematics Department
series: "Algebra & Combinatorics Seminar"
website: http://www.math.iisc.ac.in/~khare/algcomb20-23.html
---

The geometry, and the (exposed) faces, of $X$ a "Root polytope" or "Weyl
polytope" over a complex simple Lie algebra $\mathfrak{g}$, have been
studied for many decades for various applications, including by Satake,
Borel--Tits, Casselman, and Vinberg among others. This talk focuses
on two recent combinatorial analogues to these classical faces, in the
discrete setting of weight-sets $X$.

Chari et al [_Adv. Math._ 2009, _J. Pure Appl. Algebra_ 2012]
introduced and studied two combinatorial subsets of $X$ a root system or
the weight-set wt $V$ of an integrable simple highest weight
$\mathfrak{g}$-module $V$, for studying Kirillov--Reshetikhin
modules over the specialization at $q=1$ of quantum affine algebras
$U_q(\hat{\mathfrak{g}})$ and for constructing Koszul algebras. Later,
Khare [_J. Algebra_ 2016] studied these subsets under the names
"weak-$\mathbb{A}$-faces" (for subgroups $\mathbb{A}\subseteq
(\mathbb{R},+)$) and "$212$-closed subsets".
For two subsets $Y\subseteq X$ in a vector space,  $Y$ is said to be
$212$-closed in $X$, if $y_1+y_2=x_2+x_2$ for $y_i\in Y$ and $x_i\in X$
implies $x_1,x_2\in Y$.

In finite type, Chari et al classified these discrete faces for $X$ root
systems and wt $V$ for all integrable $V$, and Khare for all
(non-integrable) simple $V$. In the talk, we extend and completely solve
this problem for _all_ highest weight modules $V$ over _any_
Kac--Moody Lie algebra $\mathfrak{g}$.
We classify, and show the equality of, the weak faces and
$212$-closed subsets in the three prominent settings of $X$:
(a) wt $V$ $\forall V$,
(b) the hull of wt $V$ $\forall V$,
(c) wt $\mathfrak{g}$ (consisting of roots and 0).
Moreover, in the case of (a) (resp. of (b)), such subsets are precisely
the weights falling on the exposed faces (resp. the exposed faces) of the
hulls of wt $V$.
