---
speaker: K.N. Raghavan (IMSc, Chennai)
title: "A refinement of the Littlewood-Richardson rule"
date: 9 November, 2018
time:  3 – 5 pm (with a 15 minute break at 3:45)
venue: LH-1, Mathematics Department
series: "Eigenfunctions Seminar"
---

Symmetric polynomials are interesting not just in their
own right. They appear naturally in various contexts, e.g.,
as characters in representation theory and as cohomology
classes of Grassmannians and other homogeneous spaces in
geometry. There are many different bases for the space of
symmetric polynomials, perhaps the most interesting of
which is the one formed by Schur polynomials. The
Littlewood-Richardson (LR) rule expresses the product of
two given Schur polynomials as a linear combination of
Schur polynomials. The first half of the talk will be a
tour of these topics that should be accessible even to
undergraduate students.

The second half will be an exposition (which hopefully
will continue to be widely accessible!)  of recent joint
research work with Mrigendra Singh Kushwaha and Sankaran
Viswanath, both of IMSc. The LR rule above has a natural
interpretation as giving the decomposition as a direct sum
of irreducibles of the tensor product of two irreducible
representations of the unitary (or general linear) group.
A generalised version of it (due to Littelmann, still called
the LR rule) gives the analogous decomposition for any
reductive group. On the tensor product of two irreducible
representations,  there is the natural "Kostant-Kumar"
filtration indexed by the Weyl group. This consists of the
cyclic submodules generated by the highest weight vector
tensor an extremal weight vector. We obtain a refined LR
rule that gives the decomposition as a direct sum of
irreducibles of the Kostant-Kumar submodules (of the tensor
product). As an application, we obtain alternative proofs
of refinements of "PRV type" results proved by Kumar and
others. (PRV = Parthasarathy, Ranga Rao, Varadarajan)
