---
speaker: Ambily Ambattu Asokan (Cochin University of Science and Technology)
title: "Colloquium: Dickson-Siegel-Eichler-Roy elementary orthogonal transformations"
date: 17 Jan, 2022
time: 4 pm
venue: Microsoft Teams (online)
website: 
---

Classical groups and their generalizations are central objects in
Algebraic $K$-theory. Orthogonal groups are one type of classical groups.
We shall discuss a generalized version of elementary orthogonal
groups.

Let $R$ be a commutative ring in which $2$ is invertible. Let $Q$ be a
non-degenerate quadratic space over $R$ of rank $n$ and let
$\mathbb{H}(R)^m$ denote the hyperbolic space of rank $m$. We consider
the elementary orthogonal transformations of the quadratic space $Q \perp
\mathbb{H}(R)^m$. These transformations were introduced by Amit Roy in
$1968$. Earlier forms of these transformations over fields were considered
by Dickson, Siegel, Eichler and Dieudonn&eacute;. We call the elementary
orthogonal transformations as
Dickson&ndash;Siegel&ndash;Eichler&ndash;Roy elementary orthogonal
transformations or Roy's elementary orthogonal transformations. The group
generated by these transformations is called DSER elementary orthogonal
group. We shall discuss the structure of this group.

As part of the solution to the famous Serre's problem on projective
modules, D. Quillen had proved the remarkable Local-Global criterion for
a module $M$ to be extended. This result is known as Quillen's Patching
Theorem or Quillen's Local-Global Principle. The Bass--Quillen
conjecture is a natural generalization of Serre's problem. In this talk,
we shall see the solution of the quadratic version of the
Bass--Quillen conjecture over an equicharacteristic regular local
ring.

The DSER elementary orthogonal group is a normal subgroup of the
orthogonal group. We shall also discuss some generalizations of classical
groups over form rings and their comparison with the DSER elementary
orthogonal group.
