---
speaker: Anita Arora (IISc Mathematics)
date: 24 June 2024
time: 2:00 pm
venue: LH-1, Department of Mathematics, IISc
title: The monopole-dimer model and eccentricities for the Cartesian product of graphs
series: Thesis
series-prefix: PhD
series-suffix: colloquium
---

This thesis comprises two main parts. The details of the two parts are
as follows:

The first part of the thesis deals with the monopole-dimer model. The
dimer (resp. monomer-dimer) model deals with weighted enumeration of
perfect matchings (resp. matchings). The monopole-dimer model is a
signed variant of the monomer-dimer model which has determinantal
structure. A more general model called the \emph{loop-vertex model} has
also been defined for an oriented graph and the partition function in
this case can also be written as a determinant. However, this model
depends on the orientation of the graph. The monopole-dimer model
interprets the loop-vertex model independent of the orientation for
planar graphs with Pfaffian orientation. The first part of the thesis
focuses on the extension of the monopole-dimer model for planar graphs
(Math. Phys. Anal. Geom., 2015) to Cartesian products thereof. We show
that the partition function of this model can be expressed as a
determinant of a generalised signed adjacency matrix. We then show that
the partition function is independent of the orientations of the planar
graphs so long as they are Pfaffian. When these planar graphs are
bipartite, we show that the computation of the partition function
becomes especially simple. We then give an explicit product formula for
the partition function of three-dimensional grid graphs a la Kasteleyn
and Temperley--Fischer, which turns out to be fourth power of a
polynomial when all grid lengths are even. Further, we generalise this
product formula to higher dimensions, again obtaining an explicit
product formula. We also discuss about the asymptotic formulas for the
free energy and monopole densities.

In 1999, Lu and Wu evaluated the partition function of the dimer model
on two-dimensional grids embedded on a M\"obius strip and a Klein
bottle. We first prove a product formula for the partition function of
the monopole-dimer model for the higher dimensional grid graphs with
cylindrical and toroidal boundary conditions. We then consider the
monopole-dimer model on high-dimensional M\"obius and Klein grids, and
evaluate the partition function for three-dimensional M\"obius and Klein
grids. Further, we show that the formula does not generalise for the
higher dimensions in any natural way. Finally, we present a relation
between the product formulas for three-dimensional grids with
cylindrical and M\"obius boundary conditions, generalising a result of
Lu and Wu.

Let $G$ be an undirected simple connected graph. We say a vertex $u$ is
eccentric to a vertex $v$ in $G$ if $d(u,v)=\max\{d(v,w): w\in V(G)\}$.
The eccentric graph of $G$, denoted $Ec(G)$, is a graph defined on the
vertices of $G$ in which two vertices are adjacent if one is eccentric
to the other. In the second part of the thesis, we find the structure
and the girth of the eccentric graph of trees, and see that the girth of
the eccentric graph of a tree can either be zero, three, or four.
Further, we study the structure of the eccentric graph of the Cartesian
product of graphs and prove that the girth of the eccentric graph of the
Cartesian product of trees can only be zero, three, four or six.
Furthermore, we provide a complete classification of when the eccentric
girth assumes these values. We also give the structure of the eccentric
graph of the grid graphs and the Cartesian product of two cycles.
Finally, we determine the conditions under which the eccentricity matrix
of the Cartesian product of trees becomes invertible.
