---
speaker: P Sivaram (IISc Mathematics)
date: 14 June 2024
time: 11 am
venue: Hybrid - LH-3, Department of Mathematics and Google meet (online) 
title: "On existence and regularity of some complex Hessian equations on Kahler and transverse Kahler manifolds."
series: Thesis
series-prefix: PhD
series-suffix: defence
---

The thesis consists of two parts. In the first part, we study the modified J-flow, introduced by Li-Shi. Analogous to the Lejmi-Szekelyhidi
conjecture for the J-equation, Takahashi has conjectured that the solution to the modified J-equation exists if and only if some 
intersection numbers are positive and has verified the conjecture for toric manifolds. We study the behaviour of the modified J-flow on 
the blow-up of the projective spaces for rotationally symmetric metrics using the Calabi ansatz and obtain another proof of Takahashi's 
conjecture in this special case. Furthermore, we also study the blow-up behaviour of the flow in the unstable case i.e. when the positivity
conditions fail. We prove that the flow develops singularities along a co-dimension one sub-variety. Moreover, away from this singular set,
the flow converges to a solution of the modified J-equation, albeit with a different slope. 

      
In the second part, we will describe a new proof of the regularity of conical Ricci flat metrics on Q-Goerenstein T-varieties. 
Such metrics arise naturally as singular models for Gromov-Hausdorff limits of Kahler-Einstein manifolds. The regularity result was first 
proved by Berman for toric manifolds and by Tran-Trung Nghiem in general. Nghiem adapted the pluri-potential theoretic approach of 
Kolodziej to the transverse Kahler setting. We instead adapt the purely PDE approach to $L^\infty$ estimates due to Guo-Phong et al. 
to the transverse Kahler setting, and thereby obtain a purely PDE proof of the regularity result. 
