---
speaker: Ved Datar (IISc Mathematics)
title: "Positive mass theorem and the Yamabe problem"
date: 1 February, 2019
time:  3 – 5 pm (with a 15 minute break at 3:45)
venue: LH-1, Mathematics Department
series: "Eigenfunctions Seminar"
---

As a natural generalization of the classical
uniformization theorem, one could ask if every conformal
class of Riemannian metrics contains a metric with
constant scalar curvature. In 1960, Yamabe attempted to
solve the problem, and gave an incorrect "proof" of an
affirmative answer to the above question. Yamabe's idea
was to to use techniques from calculus of variations and
partial differential equations to minimize a certain
functional, now named after him. Building on some work of
Trudger, Aubin solved the Yamabe problem under an
additional analytic condition, namely that the Yamabe
invariant of the manifold is strictly smaller than the
corresponding for the n-dimensional sphere. Aubin was
able to verify this analytic condition for all manifolds
of dimension strictly greater than 5 that are not locally
conformally flat. Most remarkably, the problem was finally
solved by Schoen in 1984 using the newly proven positive
mass theorem of Schoen and Yau, which in turn has origins
in general theory of relativity. A curious feature of
Schoen's proof is that it works precisely in the cases
left out by Aubin's result. 



In the first part of the talk, I will provide some
background in Riemannian geometry, and then describe the
developments surrounding the Yamabe problem until Aubin's
work in 1976. A recurring theme will be the role played by
the n-dimensional sphere and its conformal transformations,
in all aspects of the problem. In the second part of the talk,
I will describe the positive mass theorem, and outline Schoen's
proof of the Yamabe problem in low dimensions and for locally
conformally flat manifolds. Most of the Riemannian geometric
quantities (including scalar curvature, gradients, Laplacians
etc.) will be be defined in the talk, and so the hope is that
both the talks will be accessible to everyone. 
