---
speaker: Arnab Pal (IISc Mathematics)
date: 11 November 2025
time: 10:30 am
venue: LH-1, Department of Mathematics
title: "A study of convergence, quasi-optimality, and error analysis of adaptive finite element methods for a class of PDEs"
series: Thesis
series-prefix: PhD
series-suffix: colloquium
---

The study of optimal control problems governed by partial differential equations (PDEs) has been a central topic in applied mathematics and scientific computing. Such
problems involve determining a control variable that minimizes a given cost functional subject to PDE constraints. In this talk, we focus on finite element approximations
for a class of optimal control problems governed by second-order linear elliptic PDEs. The discussion includes both a priori and a posteriori error analysis, along with a
detailed investigation of the convergence and quasi-optimality properties of adaptive finite element methods (AFEM). 

The talk will be presented in two parts.The first part of the talk focuses on the adaptive convergence of conforming AFEM for Dirichlet boundary control problems governed
by PDEs in divergence form. We begin with an energy-space-based approach to the problem governed by the Poisson equation. Using techniques analogous to the Aubin–Nitsche
duality argument, we establish the key result of quasi-orthogonality under mild additional regularity assumptions on certain PDEs and a smallness condition on the initial
mesh size. Building on this, we prove both the convergence and quasi-optimality of the conforming AFEM.We then extend this framework to a more general setting, where the
constraint PDE is a second-order general linear elliptic PDE. Within this generalized framework, convergence and quasi-optimality of the conforming AFEM are achieved without
imposing any additional regularity assumptions or mesh-size restrictions, thereby generalizing the earlier results. In the second part of the talk, we consider optimal
control problems where the constraint PDE is a second order elliptic PDE in non-divergence form. We first discuss a distributed control problem and subsequently a Dirichlet
boundary control problem, along with their respective formulations. To approximate the solutions, we develop a quadratic C0 interior penalty method in each setting. Under
minimal regularity assumptions on the optimal state, costate, and control, we establish both a priori and a posteriori error estimates. While the constants in a priori and
reliability estimates for the distributed control problem depend on the domain geometry, the corresponding estimates for the Dirichlet control problem are geometry
independent, achieved through a suitable choice of the discrete bilinear form and refined estimates of the enriching operator.
